hylt.py v0.1.1
------- ------

Hylt is a HyperLinked Text file format; hylt.py is a viewer for that format.
The format itself is pretty dead simple, and viewing the .hylt files in the
test-pages/ directory will give you an idea as to how they work.  If you've
ever edited a MediaWiki wiki, it's pretty much identical in the way it does
things (except much less complex); Wikipedia is the most famous example of
a MediaWiki wiki.

This is the initial public release of Hylt and hylt.py.  There are bugs, but
it should work well enough for you to use it as it's intended--a local
collection of flat-text documents that are all linked together.  The main
reason I (Phil) started development on Hylt was to have something to write
notes for my stories and novels in without having to run a full-fledged
Wiki, and with the ability to put the "source files" in a revision control
system like Subversion.  In that I believe I've succeeded.

My success only comes on the shoulders of other great folks, though, and I
want to acknowledge them here:

* c0ffee for his XHTML export code,
* John Vernon for his help in implementing help and other sundry bits, and
* mandos for his excellent search code, page list functionality, and moral
  support.

INSTALLATION
------------

Technically hylt.py doesn't need to be installed anywhere, although if you
want online help or key references you need to have a few files in a few
places.  By default the program wants them in /usr/share/hylt/doc; if you
just cp -pr the doc/ directory to that location you should be fine.  (You
will obviously need to be root to do this.)

hylt can also make use of configuration files; although there aren't many
options at the moment, more will be added in the future.  The program
searches three locations for its configuration, and any options in a later
spot override the previous ones:

* /etc/hylt.conf
* ~/.hylt.conf
* hylt.conf in the collection directory

The configuration files are in the standard Python config format, and a
look at the top of hylt.py will show you all of the possible options;
better documentation will be available in a later release.

USING HYLT.PY
----- -------

Launch hylt.py with:

   hylt.py some-dir-or-file

If it's a directory, it should have a Start.hylt inside, which hylt.py
will automagically load.  If it's a file, it has to end in .hylt, or
the program will append "/Start.hylt" to the name.  (This is partly a
safety mechanism; it's meant to be fairly difficult to break out of the
"prison" of the starting directory in Hylt.)

From that point you can browse pages much like the text-mode browser
Links; a properly-configured system will have documentation available
with both the 'd' key and the '?' key.  (You can also see these docs
in the doc/pyui directory here.)  Importantly, you can edit the page you
are currently viewing with the 'e' key.

CONTACTING US
---------- --

If you have any ideas, suggestions, comments, or a desire to help us
develop this program, by all means contact us.  eMail Phil at:

   phil@thenexusproject.org

and he'll be happy to answer any of your questions.

Thanks for checking this program out!  We hope it'll be useful to you.
